>> Mike North: Now let's dig into
another domain modeling exercise.
We have this concept of a garden and
we have this concept of raised beds.
Just remember that photo I showed where
it's like those metal things filled
with dirt plants in them.
I have some statements here.
These are user testimonials.
These are things, pieces of pain or
elements of pain that
a user has to deal with.
Or they reflect something they wish to do
that is difficult for them to do today.
I made these intentionally vague and
I have used maybe some terms
like square foot, garden.
I'm not sure everybody who's taking
this course understands exactly what
that means.
Perhaps some of you in the room
don't understand what that means.
This is a cue for you to tease out more,
ask questions, see if this needs
to be part of the common language we
use in this gardening domain model.
So your task, let's do the domain
meddling exercise around this app.
Sorry, I mean, we kind of already know
like a little bit about where we're going.
Oops, sorry,
I keep going back to the other one.
We kinda know that we're going here.
But actually, better still,
let me take you back to this.
I'm trying to get organized
around these things and so
let's see if we can have a conversation.
How do we represent this in software?
What's at the essence of this?
The things that we need to capture.
And let's start with the things
that we feel are necessary for
any valid solution to this problem.
And to be clear, like, we're departing
from seed packets now and we're focusing
on the layout of plants in a garden that
is mostly focused around raised beds.
So I'm gonna start us off.
>> Mike North: Clearly
we're gonna have a garden.
That's the easy part.
This is for sure an entity,
like a garden has an id.
Maybe I have many gardens.
Maybe this turns into a garden
organization as a service app where
neighborhoods can rally around this.
How can we try to represent in entities,
value,
objects, relationships, constraints.
>> Student 1: Raised beds inside that?
>> Mike North: Raised beds.
>> Student 1: Each raised bed have plants.
>> Mike North: Yep,
what do you mean by plant?
>> Student 1: Array of plant.
>> Mike North: So clear,
like we'll need a plant.
What does a plant mean?
>> Student 1: You're dropping a seed and
then you can add multiple
seeds in a raised bed.
And then-
>> Mike North: So
this is like one plant planted in
the ground at a particular time.
Great.
Not the abstract concept of like, there
exists this concept of a blueberry plant.
And I can sell you many of these things,
but
this is like I've handed you one, right?
>> Student 2: What about a planting
area for the raised bed?
>> Mike North: Is that, sorry,
a new concept or renaming this concept?
>> Student 2: That would be
a new concept of value entity.
The raised bed has.
>> Mike North: A planting area, okay.
A value object or entity.
Tell me about the difference between
planting area and raised bed.
>> Student 2: I mean, I guess the width
and height could just be with height and
depth could just be
properties of the raised bed.
Unless you're planting things in
the garden outside of a raised bed.
And then a planning area could apply
to anything that isn't a raised bed in
addition to describing the areas
contained within them.
>> Mike North: Now we're thinking
critically about this problem space.
So I'm going to say I actually
call those things on the ground.
I call them beds.
I have some raised beds, but I also
have these little beds on the ground.
It's sort of a space that plants go into.
So maybe the fact that it's raised
doesn't need to be modeled.
Now this really makes things interesting.
Depth.
Like what is the depth
of a bed on the ground?
Well, is it the radius
of the planet Earth?
Like what are we talking about here?
So I love this and because I actually
intend to use this app and like at the end
of this I wanna show you some tickets
that I've prepared if people want as
like a final project to do something
interesting in the context of this app.
But like depth starts to become really
interesting if you're planning something
like bulbs where you can
have different layers,
you have ones that can be planted deep and
then ones that can be 6 inches above and
they'll sort of all pop
up at different times.
This is like a lasagna of bulbs.
If you want to think about it that way,
let's stick with width and height.
Right now I notice it's a top down view
as far as we're concerned right now.
And we're not trying to
get into depth quite yet.
But a real solution, a robust one,
would certainly model it that way.
Without making final
decisions here of any kind,
what other things do we
want to incorporate?
So garden clearly has many raised beds.
>> Student 3: I guess location
could be on the garden.
There might be some sort of like X and Y
situation for the beds within the garden.
I don't know if that's important to this.
>> Mike North: Yeah,
well, absolutely right.
Like thinking back to the first exercise
we did, like, if I want to answer some of
these questions around, like when is
the right time to plant these things?
Location is absolutely critical.
I'm going to bend your X and Y point here.
I'd argue at the very least
we need to know on plant,
like in the context of a bed, where is it?
And we're going to need a position here.
We happen to have already a value
object called XY coordinate which will
give us a good indication there.
>> Student 4: So does a planting
area have a position within a bed?
In which case would you want to tie the
plant to the planting area and position?
>> Mike North: Yeah, so stepping into
my subject matter expert role here,
I'm going to say I can't really tell
the difference between these two things.
Like to me a bed is a way to
describe a planting area.
>> Student 4: Is the planting area not one
of the tiles within a bed we can drag it
into?
>> Mike North: That's a good question.
Let's forget that we have seen
a peek at a solution there.
But if you were to ask me that
same question in the context of
like how I think about a garden.
Well, I have my garden.
It's like the big photo I showed you and
then I've got beds,
some of which are on the ground, some of
which are in those metal containers and
then plants are positioned
within those beds.
And like, while it's true that each of
those beds has a position within my
garden, really what I'm trying to.
The problems I'm trying to
solve here have to do with like
tracking how much sun each bed gets.
Or am I planting things
too close together or, or
am I needlessly planting things too
far apart and I'm wasting space.
And if you just show me like some
list of little bed diagrams,
like a lot of my needs are met and
I don't need it to be.
I don't need to be at a two scale,
real diagram of my garden.
Although that would be very cool.
I'd say we're going
well beyond the basics.
If we go all the way there.
>> Student 5: Would we have any
plants that exist outside of a bed?
Seedlings or.
>> Mike North: Yeah, great question.
I think I can simplify that by
saying whatever plant exists in.
I'm going to call that a bed.
If it's one of those hydroponic things,
that's a bed too.
If it's in a red party cup, maybe that's
a bed of width one and height one.
And I'm just going to call that a bed.
It's a good starting point.
I think maybe what we can get
out of that is plant always,
always has a pointer to a bed.
Beds can only exist within
the context of a garden.
So what I'm going to do is
I'm going to combine these
because your subject matter
expert says I'm Confused here.
>> Student 3: The plant would have a size.
>> Mike North: Okay,
say more like how big it gets.
>> Student 3: How big it gets
>> Mike North: How big it gets.
Maximum,
>> Student 5: How many positions.
>> Student 3: When the-
>> Student 5: The planting distance.
>> Mike North: The planting distance,
right?
>> Student 3: Yeah.
>> Student 5: Now wouldn't the plant
just have kind of plant metadata,
which is all of the stuff that the plant.
>> Mike North: We're gonna see?
It turns out we're going to use the same
plant metadata concept, I'd say.
Yeah, absolutely.
It has a planting distance for sure.
And, you know, I'm going to tell you,
I only care about feet
here because I mentioned I want to embrace
the concept of a square foot garden.
So really, like in reality,
when we say there's this plant distance,
it's a circle.
It kind of represents like,
how big the plant's going to get,
how competitive it is for
nutrients with the things around it.
But gosh, a real simple way
to draw this out is squares.
And so we're gonna approximate it.
Square foot garden is a term people use
where you can allocate a square foot and
sometimes that means you can plant nine
carrots in there in a three by three grid.
Or if it's a tomato, it's like a two
foot by two foot square in your garden.
It takes up all four of those spots.
And that's sort of like the crude
way of getting it pretty much right.
And a lot of people do it this way.
All right, plant has a position,
it has a planting distance.
I'm actually going to do this.
Come on.
You're not going to let me scroll.
I'm going to say a plant
comes from a seed packet.
Ultimately it comes from a seed packet.
And I, I think we already put
planting distance on here.
I'm going to refine.
I'm going to refine our domain model here.
We've made a change.
We actually added this already and
we can just refer to the seed
packet as the source of truth.
For that's sort of our, like,
it's our plant factory.
Right.
It's the template for a plant.
And we don't need that
data to be stored on every
single plant that's in the ground.
Like, If I plant 40 snow pea vines,
I can point to the same.
>> Student 2: Seed packet maybe outside
the scope of the exercise, but like, with.
I don't know a lot about gardening, but
I have heard the concept of like
permaculture, right, where certain
plants planted near each other can be more
cooperative and effective and grow better.
You as a master gardener with
the master gardener hat on.
Do you care about that relationship for
plants in how you plant things?
>> Mike North: Absolutely.
But I think it goes
beyond the basics here.
I would love for that to be eventually
part of this app, but for now, let's,
like, let's focus on plant
spacing as the core problem.
Plant spacing and
how that is dealt with in the layout
of plants in a bed of some kind.
We can also assume the beds
are rectangular for now, you know, and
we'll see where this takes us.
So I think this is a good starting point.
We'll revisit this if,
as we're implementing,
we discover that there
are things that we're missing.